# Custom Sock Recipe

This cuff-down, heel-flap and gusset sock recipe was generated by Calla's Custom Sock Recipe Generator (https://callacarter.com/customsocks/)

Gauge: {gauge_st_per_unit} stitches and {gauge_row_per_unit} rows per inch.

## Leg

Cast on {cast_on_s_l} (L) / {cast_on_s_r} (R) stitches on size {needle_size} double-pointed needles or circular needles if using magic loop.

Join in the round and work the cuff for approximately 1" in 2x2 ribbing (or method of choice).

Work in stockinette until the piece measures 7" (or desired length) from cast on.

## Heel Flap

To begin, first knit {heel_flap_s_l} (L) / {heel_flap_s_r} (R) stitches.

Those stitches are the first half of your stitches (top of foot). The second half is where you will knit your heel.

Now that you have knit across the first half of your stitches, cut your main color and pick up your contrasting color.

Work back and forth across the next {heel_flap_s_l} (L) / {heel_flap_s_r} (R) stitches.

Row 1: K2, [sl1, k1] to end. Turn work.

Row 2: Sl1, p to end. Turn work.

Row 3: [sl1, k1] to end. Turn work.

Repeat rows 2 and 3 until {heel_flap_r_l} (L) / {heel_flap_r_r} (R) heel flap rows have been worked in total.

## Turn

Now that your heel flap is complete, it's time to turn the heel.

You should have ended your heel flap after a purl row.

Row 1: sl 1, k {heel_turn_center_s_l} (L) / {heel_turn_center_s_r} (R), ssk, k1, turn.

Row 2: sl1, p 5, p2tog, p1, turn.

Row 3: sl 1, k 6, ssk, k1, turn.

Row 4: sl1, p 7, p2tog, p1, turn.

Continue in this pattern until all heel stitches have been worked.

You should now have {after_heel_turn_s_l} (L) / {after_heel_turn_s_r} (R) heel stitches.

## Gusset

With right side facing, pick up and knit stitches along the left side of the heel flap.

Knit across front-of-foot stitches.

Pick up and knit stitches along the right side of heel flap, then continue around.

Row 1: Work to marker, sl marker, k1, ssk, knit to 3 stitches before end, k2tog, k1.

Row 2: Work even.

Repeat these two rows until you have {foot_s_l} (L) / {foot_s_r} (R) stitches.

## Foot

Knit in stockinette until the work reaches the tip of the wearer's pinky toe.

If you cannot try on the sock, continue until {foot_r_l} (L) / {foot_r_r} (R) rows have been worked from the gusset, including the first row in which you picked up stitches from both sides of the heel flap.

## Toe

Cut main color and pick up contrasting color.

Knit one round even, then shape toe:

Row 1: K1, ssk, knit to 3 stitches before end of needle, k2tog, k1. Repeat for second needle.

Row 2: Knit.

Repeat rows 1 and 2 until {toe_decrease1_s_l} (L) / {toe_decrease1_s_r} (R) stitches remain.

Then repeat row 1 until {toe_decrease2_s_l} (L) / {toe_decrease2_s_r} (R) stitches remain.

To finish, graft the toe stitches closed using the kitchener stitch.